---
 {
	"title": "302.1: Plan a Plutus Contract",
	"slt": ["302.1"],
	"type": "Lesson",
	"description": "Plan a Plutus Contract",
	"videoURL": "C_ueSBN4Kvs",
	"lastEdited": "2024-01-08",
	"author": "Gimbalabs"
}
---

 # Planning a Plutus Smart Contract

---



## Introduction
You will learn the art of planning and implementing Plutus contracts. We'll start by laying the foundation for effective contract development, covering key concepts such as contract design, logic structure, and data management. In this lesson, you will discover how to translate real-world scenarios and business logic into Plutus code, enabling you to bring your unique ideas to life on the blockchain.

## Links



Before we delve into the intricacies of Plutus smart contracts, it's crucial to grasp the significance of meticulous planning. Imagine your smart contract as a blueprint for a building; the quality of the blueprint directly impacts the strength and stability of the structure. Similarly, your contract's planning phase sets the stage for its reliability and predictability.

## Key Considerations in Planning

-   Determinism
-   Input Parameters
-   Designing the Logic
-   State Management
-   Error Handling
-   Security

## Token Vesting Contracts

To help illustrate Planning concepts, we will use 'Token Vesting' or 'Token Lockup' contracts as prime examples. These contracts play a pivotal role in the cryptocurrency and blockchain realm, especially during Initial Coin Offerings (ICOs) or token distribution events.

Consider this example: You're launching a new cryptocurrency and want to distribute tokens to early investors and dev team. Instead of minting all tokens at once, holding them in a wallet and then releasing them, you create a Token Vesting contract to unlock a certain percentage of tokens at regular intervals.

### Determinism

All calculations inside Token Vesting contract related to the release of tokens should be deterministic. For example, if an investor is entitled to receive 10% of their tokens every month, the contract must calculate the exact number of tokens to release based on the current date consistently. Given the same inputs (current date, contract start date, token allocation), the contract should always produce the same result, ensuring predictability.

### Input Parameters

In a Token Vesting contract, critical parameters include the investor's address, the start date of the vesting period, the total token allocation, and the release schedule. These parameters must be defined clearly and deterministically. For instance, specifying the start date as a `POSIXTime` ensures that the contract's behavior is directly tied to a deterministic blockchain event, making it predictable for all parties involved.

### Designing the Logic

The logic of a Token Vesting contract should be precise and entirely deterministic. For instance, consider a scenario where an investor can claim tokens after 6 months, and they can claim the entire allocation at once. The contract's logic can be abstracted as follows:

```haskell
isTokenClaimPossible :: Bool
isTokenClaimPossible =
    if from claimingTime `contains` txInfoValidRange
        then do
            payToPubKey investor totalTokenAmount
        else traceError  "Tokens are locked until the vesting period ends."

```

### State Management

Managing the state of data is crucial in a Token Vesting contract. Plutus provides data structures like `Datum` and `Redeemer` to manage state and trigger actions. For instance, you might use the `Datum` to store information about the vested tokens and their release schedule. The contract's state management should be deterministic, ensuring that the data stored in `Datum` aligns with the contract's purpose and can be consistently evaluated.

### Error Handling

Error handling is vital to ensure the contract behaves predictably, even in unexpected scenarios. Let's say an investor attempts to claim tokens before the vesting period is over. In this case, the contract should implement error handling to gracefully reject the transaction and return a deterministic 'False' outcome, indicating that the conditions for token release have not been met.

### Security

Security is paramount when planning a Token Vesting contract. Consider potential vulnerabilities such as unauthorized access or reentrancy attacks. To maintain the contract's deterministic nature, you should implement robust security measures, including access control checks, input validation, and careful handling of funds. Security audits and thorough testing should be part of the planning process to mitigate potential risks effectively.
