---
 {
	"title": "202.5: Write a Minting Validator in Aiken",
	"slt": ["202.5"],
	"type": "Lesson",
	"description": "Write a Minting Validator in Aiken",
  "videoURL": "GQBRczbGjAg",
	"lastEdited": "2024-01-08",
	"author": "Gimbalabs"
}
---


## Introduction
To continue building background knowledge, let's build a similar minting validator to the one we built in Lesson 202.4, but this time with Aiken! Which approach will you prefer? The Cardano ecosystem is expanding rapidly right now. By comparing different smart contract languages, you will be able to see what all of them have in common: this will help you build a mental model of how Plutus and Cardano work. You will also notice differences between languages. When you find something unique about a language that excites you, we hope that you'll follow your interests.

## Links
- [Aiken Smart Contract Platform](https://aiken-lang.org/)


# Step by Step: Write a Minting Validator in Aiken


## Step 1: Before You Start, Update Aiken

```bash
 cargo install --git https://github.com/aiken-lang/aiken.git
```

Or follow your preferred Installation instructions in the [official Aiken documentation](https://aiken-lang.org/installation-instructions)


## Step 2: Create a New Aiken Project
```bash
cd aiken
aiken new ppbl2023/token-minting-validator
cd token-minting-validator
aiken check
```
Now you'll have an empty `/validators` directory.

Make a new file in `/validators` called `minter.ak`, or whatever file name you want.

## Step 3: Write a Simple Minting Validator
Open `minter.ak` and add the following code. For line-by-line description of this code, review the video above.

```javascript
use aiken/transaction.{ScriptContext} as tx

validator {
  fn gift_card(rdmr: Int, ctx: ScriptContext) -> Bool {
    let ScriptContext { purpose, ..} =
      ctx

    expect tx.Mint(_policy) =
      purpose

    rdmr == 1618033988
 }
}
```


## Step 4: Compile the Validator with aiken build

Save the `minter.ak` file, and then run this command from the project directory, `/token-minting-validator`
```bash
aiken build
```
The output is a `plutus.json` file. You will see the `plutus.json` file in the root of the `/token-minting-validator` directory.


## Step 5: Use aiken blueprint convert to create a familiar .plutus script
Now we can use `aiken blueprint convert` to create `.plutus` script like we'd get compiling from PlutusTx.

Save the output in a file called `aiken-minter.plutus`.


## Step 6: Use the output to mint tokens
Using the `aiken-minter.plutus` file, you can use the `mint-tokens-plutus-script.sh` from [Lesson 202.4](/modules/202/2024). Try it, or watch the video above to see how it works.

# Keep Learning
If you want to go deeper into Aiken, try the [Aiken Gift Card Tutorial](https://aiken-lang.org/example--gift-card). This tutorial shows how to build a pair of related validators in Aiken. One of the validators handles minting logic, and the other is a spending validator that allows the holder of an NFT to unlock additional token.

This example also shows how to use [Lucid](https://lucid.spacebudz.io/) to build transactions in Javascript. Just like there are a variety of languages for writing smart contracts, there are a variety of libraries for building transactions in JavaScript. We encourage you to compare Lucid and Mesh. Which one do you like best?