---
 {
	"title": "100.4: Get Your PPBL 2024 Token",
	"slt": ["100.4"],
	"type": "Lesson",
	"description": "Get Your PPBL 2024 Token",
	"videoURL": "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tD5hVDC06iM",
	"lastEdited": "2024-01-08",
	"author": "Gimbalabs"
}
---

## Please Note

Updated 2024-01-01: Please note that this Plutus PBL Course is now closed, and assignments are currently disabled. This means that you will not be able to mint a PPBL Contributor Token. You can still read through the course and watch accompanying videos. An new edition of the course will launch in March, 2024. On-chain assignments will be re-enabled at that time.

## About the Contributor Token

There is a lot we want to tell you about the Contributor token:
- how it is minted using <CLink href="https://meshjs.dev/" target="_blank">MeshJS</CLink>
- how it serves as an experimental implementation of <CLink href="https://cips.cardano.org/cips/cip68/" target="_blank">CIP-68</CLink>
- how you will be able to use Plutus to change the behavior of the token

We will cover all of the points above and much more in this course. But first, let&rsquo;s just make sure that you have a Contributor Token.

## Assignment:
Review this video, or follow the steps below to mint your PPBL2023 Token.

1. Confirm that your wallet is connected to Cardano Preprod Testnet.
2. Make sure that collateral is set, and that dapp connection is enabled in your wallet. To learn about collateral and dapp connection, watch the video above.
3. Choose an alias for your token. Remember that you are minting a token on a blockchain, and the name of your token will be on a permanent ledger.
4. Click the Mint button, then sign and submit the transaction.
5. Refresh this page to see your new token.

Your custom PPBL 2023 token will be minted directly to your wallet.

In this Plutus PBL Course, you will learn how your PPBL2023 token was minted, and how to use tokens to make applications respond differently when different tokens are connected.

In Modules 101 and 102, you will learn how to change the lucky number on your new Contributor Token.

We are excited to be on this journey with you!

Todo:
1. Need new success component
2. Remake video for Andamio onboarding
3. What is the token called?