---
 {
	"title": "102.5: Unlock Tokens from a Contract Address",
	"slt": [""],
	"type": "Lesson",
	"description": "",
	"videoURL": "xFMZFxuAVbQ",
	"lastEdited": "2024-01-08",
	"author": "Gimbalabs"
}
---


## Introduction
Unlocking tokens is more complicated than locking tokens.

In an unlocking transaction, we must follow the rules defined by a Plutus validator. We must also provide the necessary Plutus script, datum, and redeemer within the unlocking transaction.

In this lesson you will unlock the UTxO that you locked in Lesson 102.4. You might also unlock a UTxO locked by someone else - this is "Always Succeeds", after all!

Throughout this course, you will see different scenarios for unlocking UTxOs from Contract Addresses. The purpose of this example is to give you a place to start.


## Links


 # How to unlock tokens from a contract address
Before we get started, there are two new concepts you will need to know:
1. Collateral
2. Using `tx-in` from a contract address


## About Collateral
When interacting with a contract address, you must [specify a UTxO to be used as "collateral" in each transaction](https://docs.cardano.org/plutus/collateral-mechanism).

For now, just notice how `--tx-in-collateral` is used in the `transaction build` below. You will learn details about collateral later in the course.


## Using tx-in from a contract address
When you want to spend a UTxO from a contract address, you must do more than specify the UTxO.

In the `transaction build` below, look at these lines:

```bash
--tx-in $CONTRACT_UTXO \
--tx-in-script-file $PLUTUS_SCRIPT_FILE \
--tx-in-inline-datum-present \
--tx-in-redeemer-value 1000 \
```

With `--tx-in`, you'll specify a UTxO as usual. Then, you must also set the following:
1. The Plutus script corresponding to the contract address from which the `$CONTRACT_UTXO` is being unlocked
2. Datum
3. Redeemer

There are different ways to specify the script, datum, and redeemer.

You guessed it - we will look deeper at these concepts throughout this course!


## Unlock a UTxO from Always Succeeds

### Set Variables
```bash
CONTRACT_UTXO=
PLUTUS_SCRIPT_FILE=
COLLATERAL_UTXO=
```

### Build, Sign, and Submit Tx:
```bash
cardano-cli transaction build \
--testnet-magic 1 \
--tx-in $CONTRACT_UTXO \
--tx-in-script-file $PLUTUS_SCRIPT_FILE \
--tx-in-inline-datum-present \
--tx-in-redeemer-value 1000 \
--tx-in-collateral $COLLATERAL_UTXO \
--change-address $SENDER_ADDRESS \
--protocol-params-file protocol.json \
--out-file unlock-always-succeeds.raw

cardano-cli transaction sign \
--signing-key-file $SENDER_KEY \
--testnet-magic 1 \
--tx-body-file unlock-always-succeeds.raw \
--out-file unlock-always-succeeds.signed

cardano-cli transaction submit \
--tx-file unlock-always-succeeds.signed \
--testnet-magic 1
```


## What's Next?
At Live Coding on 2023-03-30, we will provide a live demonstration that dives a bit deeper into scripts, datum, and redeemer:
- you will see how to use a "Plutus Reference Script" to build a transaction with a Plutus script that is *already on-chain*.
- we will explore the different ways of placing datum on-chain
