---
 {
	"title": "101.7: Getting Started With OpShin",
	"slt": ["101.7"],
	"type": "Lesson",
	"description": "Getting Started With OpShin",
	"videoURL": "S-GgkDsUBpQ",
	"lastEdited": "2024-01-08",
	"author": "OpShin Team"
}
---

## Introduction

OpShin is an alternative language for developing smart contracts on Cardano. OpShin is based on Python and integrates perfectly with existing Python stacks.This allows developers to build using their favorite IDE with Python support, enjoy type hints, linting, testing, verification etc.To get started, watch this video or follow along with the documentation below.

## Links
- [OpShin official site](https://opshin.dev/)
- [OpShin Pioneer Program](https://github.com/OpShin/opshin-pioneer-program/)
- [OpShin Language Documentation](https://book.opshin.dev/)

## You Will Know YOu Are Successful If:
You can compile always-succeeds.plutus by running "opshin build". Watch the video above, or follow along with the documentation below. If you get stuck, ask for help at Live Coding or on Gimbalabs Discord.

# How to build always-succeeds.plutus in OpShin / Python


## Step 1: Clone opshin-starter-kit

```bash
git clone https://github.com/OpShin/opshin-starter-kit.git
cd opshin-starter-kit
```

## Step 2: Install Packages

To install opshin run `pip install -e .` or `poetry install`

```bash
opshin-starter-kit $ pip install -e .
```

or

```bash
opshin-starter-kit $ poetry install
```


## Step 3: Creating Always Succeeds

- By default the template is a simple vesting contract. But let us remove it and replace it with an always succeeds example instead.
- Create the file `src/on_chain/always_succeeds.py`.
- The Always Succeeds validator looks like this (you can copy this code):

```python
from opshin.prelude import *

def validator(r: Datum, d: Datum, context: ScriptContext):
	pass
```


## Step 4: Compile to Plutus Core:

- To compile run
```bash
opshin-starter-kit $ opshin build src/on_chain/always_succeeds.py
```
- The results are written into the `build/` directory.
- That's it! You can find the mainnet and testnet address, the `script.plutus` and `script.cbor` files in the build directory for further use with Lucid or similar toolings!
- Explore the repository to find how to build off-chain code with PyCardano and how to test your contract using pytest.import MDXLessonLayout from "@/src/components/lms/Lesson/MDXLessonLayout.tsx"
export default ({ children}) => <MDXLessonLayout>{children}</MDXLessonLayout>